This level of customization that you can see over here
on the right doesn't exist in Google Analytics. We get that.
But maybe, you really like the clean and consistent look of the GA reports,
is your go-to for reporting.
Maybe, with a little bit of time,
you've just become really comfortable in them.
Remember though, that you still have the data clutter and noise concerns
to navigate every time you want to display the answer to a new question.
You've got to find it,
then you've got to try and isolate it,
and then you've got to try to present it,
and those can really be a challenge in Google Analytics itself.
Remember too, that just because you're comfortable being
surrounded by all of the data points in Google Analytics,
don't make the mistake of assuming that everyone you
want to share your data with will be comfortable too.
If you find yourself doing work for other people who
want very specific answers to specific questions,
Google Analytics is probably not the interface to provide those solutions.
Now, while there are many benefits to
customizing your visuals as we've mentioned earlier,
there are two caveats to consider and one of them we've actually illustrated here.
The first is the bad visual design,
can provide a poor user experience.
Take a quick look at this chart.
You can see that we've got too many data points to have these labels applied.
If you were just to leave that as is,
people are going to get confused and frustrated.
So, you have to make sure that you either reduce the number of
data points so that you change the display label,
maybe removing the decimal points for example,
to try to clean that up.
Poor user experience can distract from the story
that you're trying to tell if you do it carelessly.
But it can also provide you,
as the report maker,
with a distraction that takes away from making
the decisions on what data to include and how to display it.
You can get so busy trying to make something pretty that you
forget or lose track of whether that something is what's really important.
Don't get caught in that trap.
As we said earlier,
select your data points first,
get plain looking versions of your charts up there as we have done,
and then once you're happy that the data being displayed is the data you want,
then go ahead and click on each of your reports,
turn to the design and style aspects over here,
and make them look the way we want.
Now, as we close up this examination of
the relative strengths and weaknesses of
Google Analytics and Data Studios for your reporting,
and dashboarding needs, there's one last consideration to be made.
The power of your data lies in sharing it with others.
So, let's talk a little bit about sharing the results of your hard work.
Sharing in Data Studio is just as simple as sharing in any other Google Doc.
You go over here,
click on the Plus to share the report,
and this is a very familiar interface for any of you who've used Google products before.
You can share with individual emails or addresses,
you can go ahead and create a shareable link,
and then you can determine what can people who have that link do,
can they edit, can they just view in any event?
It's a very clean and familiar process to share things.
It's important because the right data in
the right hands is where insight and innovation occur.
This approach that you're seeing here is really part of the democratization of
data that can make organizational buying broad and effective.
Now, if we go over and we compare that to the approach that we have to take here,
which is that in order to share your reports,
you have to grant someone at least view access to
your Analytics just to show them
the few metrics and dimensions that might be of importance to them.
This is not the best way to do things.
It's rarely the best approach for empowering staff or
anyone who doesn't want to have to learn another interface.
Casual users don't want to learn how to navigate
only to find those few things that are really important to them.
Keep all of these things in mind and act on working to ensure that
whoever you're providing and sharing your data with is going to have the easiest,
cleanest, clearest journey possible.